The CSV file is an intermediate file to allow Beacon2 RI tools v2 convert to BFF since the CSVs follow an harmonized structure.

If you want to convert metadata or phenoclinic data into BFF, you will have to create the different CSV files for each collection needed, writing the records according to the header columns, which indicate the field of the schema that this data will be placed in. Every new row will be appended to the final output file as a new and independent document. You can find the templates and examples of the different CSV files in the csv folder of the repository.

Fill in the CSV file, following the next rules:

If you want to write data that needs to be appended in the same document (eg. two different measures, two different IDs), please write data separated with ‘|’, for example if you need to write an ID, ‘HG00001|HG00002’, respect this order for their correlatives in the same document, as for the label of this ID would be ‘labelforHG00001|labelforHG00002’.

As the info field for each collection is very generic and can be filled with different data, you will need to fill the column data directly with json type data. For copies and subjects for genomicVariations, json data is also needed.

Please, respect the columns like the files inside the templates folder, as the script will read only the columns with the "correctly spelled" headers.

Note that you do not have to write inside all the columns, as some of the columns are optionals and others are part of a possible option of the Beacon specification but incompatible with other columns (an exception will raise in case a column is misfilled). Beacon2 RI tools will only convert the columns that contain information, the rest can be removed if wanted.

We have filled the different CSV files using the CINECA UK1 dataset as an example for each collection ready to be converted to BF. Please, take a look at it if you wish inside the examples folder.


Remember that not all the different CSV for the different collections have to be filled up. If a user does not have information for one collection, Beacon will not complain. However if you want to populate a collection there are mandatory fields that need to be added in order to convert your data to BFF. You can find the mandatory fields in the Beacon specification.
